---
layout: post
title:  "One of the biggest dental misconceptions"
date:   2016-08-18 07:00:35 -0400
author: Joanne
permalink: flossing
categories: blog
image: AUG2016/dental_supplies.jpg
tags:
    - wellness
    - health
excerpt: <p>To floss or not to floss, that is the question</p>
---

Why would I write about this you ask? Well, I felt I had to in response to a media release recently on flossing. Many of my clients and friends have asked me about that article and I thought I would chime in. There seems to always be a debate about flossing and whether it's proven "effective". A few years ago there was a mouthwash (name not to be mentioned) claiming that rinsing with it is just as, or even more effective than flossing. If that's the case then we all might as well stop flossing and brushing all together. It's claims like that, and the obvious fact that generally people hate to do it, that create a bit of a bad rap for flossing.  
<br>

> In my experience, I have definitely noticed a correlation between flossing and healthier gums

I have been a dental hygienist for over 15 years and been in the dental field for even longer so I think my opinion holds at least a little bit of ground. But again this is just purely from my experience and my personal opinion. So please make your own informed choice.
<br><br>

**The Evolution of Plaque**
<br>
Let's get down to it shall we. You don't need to floss is the claim. You sure do my friends! If you want to clean the plaque (soft debris that you can scrape off with your finger) from between two adjacent and touching teeth, this is the only way possible.  Of course you can use floss sticks and toothpicks and your nail if you wish, as some do (but I don't recommend the latter) but those methods usually do not slide in between the contacts of the teeth like the floss does. So if you want less plaque in between your teeth, flossing drastically reduces the amount of plaque in between them. This doesn't have to be based on research or studies. Just go to the mirror and floss your teeth and watch the floss remove plaque and food debris from between them. It's very plain to see! Even without the science to back it! Hee hee!
<br><br>

**Now why should you remove the plaque?**
<br>
Well without getting too technical. There is all sorts of bad bacteria in the plaque that if left there will irritate the gums and in time lead to inflammation, puffiness and bleeding of the gums known as gingivitis. That plaque hardens into tartar or calculus, the white or yellowish stuff that you can't scrape off with your finger nail but get scraped off by me your friendly hygienist or your dentist.   
<br>

That tartar and plaque not only move up the tooth and build up in between the teeth but guess where else they build up and grow? They actually migrate down to fill the gum pocket and if left undisturbed (not cleaned) allow the bacteria in them to start eating away bone which leads to periodontal disease. This is more serious then gingivitis because your gums can bounce back from gingivitis, but not when it comes to your bone levels. Once you lose bone you cannot grow it back. The only way to refill bone in this case would be by getting bone grafts or bone implants. Less bone equals mobile and weakened teeth which equals not good my friends.
<br><br>

{% include image.html
            img="/img/AUG2016/dental_tools.jpg"
            title="Dental Tools"
            caption="Your dental exam will be a more positive one if you include floss." %}

In my experience from working in a general dental office and also and at a periodontal office (gum specialist), I have definitely noticed a correlation between flossing and healthier gums, less buildup between the teeth, and less bleeding of the gums also.  
<br>

What about the claim of mouth wash killing all the bacteria? Well it's true, it does kill a significant amount of bacteria but how effectively will it clean in between teeth? I don't know. That is why I always recommend both and also use them myself!
<br><br>

There's another important reason to floss and that is to prevent tooth decay or cavities. Believe it or not a large amount, if not the majority of cavities form in between the teeth. Wonder why that is? Well of course it's because it's the hardest place to keep clean, made even harder if you don't use floss to clean it. Put those reasons together and they are good enough reasons to floss and will save you plenty of money at the dentist.
<br><br>

Hope that gives you a little more information to make an informed choice on whether to floss or not to floss my friends! In the meantime I will keep flossing my virgin cavity free teeth.
