---
title:  "Sun damage is real and so is hyperpigmentation"
date:   2016-08-14 07:00:35 -0400
author: Joanne
permalink: sun-damage
categories: blog
image: AUG2016/coconut_tress.jpg
tags:
    - wellness
    - health
excerpt: <p>Have fun in the sun with these sun protection tips</p>
---

Living in a tropical country is fantastic for very obvious reasons. Beach and sun 365 days a year. If you like that sort of thing. I do. And I love being outdoors. So as I'm approaching the big 40 in a few years, sun damage is always in the back of my mind. Of course not only because of premature aging but for skin health in general and skin cancer prevention.
<br>

> On doing some research I realized that some medications can cause those dark spots. And they can occur on all skin tones

Hyperpigmentation is a very new thing to me. My mom always had freckles from the sun so I always had freckles after a day in the sun, streaked across my cheeks and nose but they usually went away quickly. Well I noticed late last year, after I was put on some medication temporarily, that I developed some blotchy dark spots on my forehead and my cheek. On doing some research I realized that some medications can cause those dark spots. And they can occur on all skin tones. Add the fact that I'm in the sun a tonne, this makes it a recipe for disaster when it comes to hyperpigmentation.  
<br>

It's caused mainly from:

* Over exposure to the Sun
* heredity
* picking at skin and scarring
* hormonal changes including pregnancy
* medications like antibiotics,hormone treatments and anti seizure drugs
* skin inflammation and injuries
<br>

I'm 4 out of six of those so I'm very much into prevention. I prefer physical barriers as opposed to putting on a ton of chemicals on my skin.  So I use an SPF 50 hat, SPF 50 umbrella by Coolibar whenever I can. I also use elta MD sunscreen which I talked about in my Instagram post. I have yet to find anything better than it for my reactive skin. And it stands up to the humidity and the heat of the island too. No breakouts! Big yay!! And If I have to reapply it's so thin, its no big deal. It's not like your slathering on a greasy layer over a greasy layer and a sweaty face! Lol. Lovely picture I'm painting I know.  
<br>

{% include image.html
            img="/img/AUG2016/sun_apparel.jpg"
            title="Sun Apparel"
            caption="All of my beach essentials" %}

I also love the fact that it goes on clear even though zinc oxide is a main component of the sunscreen.
All these measures though do not reverse or correct hyperpigmentation. They just prevent it from occurring or arrest it from getting worse. Is there anything you can do to minimize the look of it, or even out skin tone? I will have a post about that in the near future. Stay tuned!
<br>

In the meantime I would love to hear what your favorite sunscreen is and what ways you try to keep protected from sun damage.
